Watch all video from following link and make the project along with the udemy trainer



Learn how to make your code production ready by watching videos

Answer the following



Ques1. What is the use of suspense?

Ans:

Suspence is a component in React used to handle lazy loading of components.

It lets you wait for a component to load and show a fallback UI (like a spinner or loading text) while the component is being fetched.



Ques2. What is the use of lazy loading?

Ans:

lazy() is a function provided by React to dynamically load components only when needed.

It improves performance by splitting the code and reducing the initial bundle size.

Useful for large apps to avoid loading everything upfront.



Ques3. What is the use of the build folder?

Ans:

The build folder is created after running npm run build command.

It contains the production-ready version of your app (HTML, CSS, JS).

This is what you deploy to the server (e.g., Netlify, Vercel, Firebase Hosting).

Files are minified and optimized for faster load time.



Ques4. What are the various deployment steps , explain each of them?

Ans:

Here’s a general deployment flow using Vite + React (can vary based on platform):

Build the App
Run: npm run build

→ Generates optimized static files in the dist/ folder.

2.Choose a Hosting Platform

Examples: Vercel, Netlify, Firebase Hosting, GitHub Pages, etc.

3.Deploy

For Vercel/Netlify: Drag and drop the dist/ folder OR link your GitHub repo and it auto-deploys on push.

For Firebase:
Initialize: firebase init
Select Hosting, choose dist/ as the public folder.
Deploy:
firebase deploy



Ques5. What does '-g ' do?

Ans:

The -g flag stands for global.

Example:
npm install -g firebase-tools

This installs the package globally so you can use it from anywhere in your system's terminal.



Ques6. How do we want to configure our server.Why do we do so?

Ans:

Configuration Goals:

Serve the index.html for all routes in a SPA (Single Page Application).
Redirect unknown routes to home.
Enable HTTPS if needed.
Add caching, compression, and security headers.


Why we do this:

To ensure your app works correctly after refreshing or navigating via links.
To make your site secure, fast, and user-friendly.

Example (for Firebase):
"rewrites": [
{
    "source": "**",
    "destination": "/index.html"
  }
]

This makes sure all routes are handled by React Router.



Ques7. Successfuly deploy the app and paste the URl here

https://e-commerce-site-opal-tau.vercel.app/





Deliverable:


Add suspense and lazy loading to your ecommerce website as well

Make a production build of it

Deploy your code to firebase. [ PLEASE SKIP THIS TASK. NO NEED TO DEPLOY]

Once done, paste the hosted url. This url would be used in your resume, so save it and keep it. [ PLEASE SKIP THIS TASK. NO NEED TO DEPLOY]





Solution:
GitHub Repo: https://github.com/MdAbdullahAnwar/E-Commerce-Site
commit ID: 7f860420be5a41fe967ed587cbd0388ffcf2a3f8