Watch video 7 from the following link and answer the following



Ques1. What do 4XX responses mean? Explain a few of them.

Ans: 4XX Responses (Client Errors)

4XX responses indicate that the request failed due to an issue from the client side (e.g., invalid request, missing authentication, forbidden access). Some common 4XX responses:

400 Bad Request → The server couldn't understand the request due to incorrect syntax or missing data.
Example: Sending an API request with invalid JSON.

401 Unauthorized → Authentication is required, but either not provided or incorrect.
Example: Trying to access a protected API without logging in.

403 Forbidden → The server understands the request but refuses to fulfill it (lack of permission).
Example: A user without admin rights trying to delete an admin-only resource.

404 Not Found → The requested resource doesn't exist.
Example: Trying to access a page that has been deleted.

429 Too Many Requests → The client has sent too many requests in a short time (rate limiting).
Example: Calling an API too frequently without respecting rate limits.



Ques2. What do 5XX responses mean? Explain a few of them.

Ans: 5XX Responses (Server Errors)


5XX responses indicate that the server failed to process a valid request due to an internal issue. Some common ones:

500 Internal Server Error → A generic error when something goes wrong on the server.
Example: A bug in the backend code causing a crash.

502 Bad Gateway → The server received an invalid response from another server (e.g., database failure).
Example: A reverse proxy (like Nginx) failing to communicate with an application server.

503 Service Unavailable → The server is temporarily unable to handle the request (maintenance or overload).
Example: A website going down due to high traffic.

504 Gateway Timeout → A server didn't respond in time to a request from another server.
Example: A request to an external API taking too long to respond.



Ques3. How does try catch work?

Ans: try...catch is used to handle errors gracefully in JavaScript.

i. try block → Contains the code that may cause an error.

ii. catch block → Runs only if an error occurs, allowing us to handle it without crashing the program.



try {

let result = 10 / 0; // This won’t throw an error in JS, but let’s assume another error occurs

console.log(result);

} catch (error) {

console.log("An error occurred:", error.message);

} If an error occurs inside try, execution jumps to catch, skipping the remaining try code



Ques4. What happens when we throw an error?

Ans: When we use throw, it manually triggers an error, stopping code execution unless handled by catch.

Example:

function divide(a, b) {

 if (b === 0) {

  throw new Error("Cannot divide by zero!"); // Manually throwing an error

 }

 return a / b;

}

try {

 console.log(divide(10, 0));

} catch (error) {

 console.log("Error:", error.message);

}


Output: Error: Cannot divide by zero!


The throw statement immediately stops execution and jumps to catch. Without try...catch, the program would crash.





Deliverable

Can you change the error from ' Something went Wrong' to 'Something went wrong ....Retrying'

Now whenever the api fails, retry calling the api again and again after intervals of 5 seconds , uptill the time it passes.

Put a cancel button to cancel retrying when the user wants to stop retrying.

Push the code to git and upload the commit ID



Solution:
GitHub Repo: https://github.com/MdAbdullahAnwar/Movies-Description-Site
commit ID: bf4967e76034ba3511203695f3bfb22590521aa5