Watch video 1, 2, 3 and 4 from the following link and answer the following





Ques1. Why do we need automated tests?

Ans:
Automated tests are essential for several reasons:

Efficiency and Speed: They allow for faster execution of repetitive test cases, which is crucial for rapid development cycles.

Consistency: Automated tests perform the same operations precisely each time they are run, eliminating human error.

Early Bug Detection: They help in identifying defects early in the development process, reducing the cost and effort required for fixes.

Improved Test Coverage: Automated tests can cover a broad range of test cases, including edge cases and scenarios that are often overlooked in manual testing .




Ques2. What are the 3 types of automated tests?Explain each one of them?

Ans:
Unit Tests:
Purpose: Test individual components or functions in isolation.
Example: Verifying that a function returns the correct output for a given input.
Benefit: Fast execution and precise pinpointing of issues within specific units of code.

Integration Tests:
Purpose: Test the interaction between different modules or services.
Example: Checking if a user authentication module correctly interacts with a database.
Benefit: Ensures that combined parts of an application work together as intended.

End-to-End (E2E) Tests:
Purpose: Test the complete flow of an application from start to finish.
Example: Simulating a user logging in, adding items to a cart, and completing a purchase.
Benefit: Validates the system's overall functionality and user experience .




Ques3. What to test and how to test?

Ans:
What to Test:

Critical Functionality: Features that are essential to the application's operation.
User Workflows: Common paths users take through the application.
Edge Cases: Unusual or extreme scenarios that might cause failures.

How to Test:

Automated Testing: For repetitive, regression, and performance tests.
Manual Testing: For exploratory, usability, and ad-hoc testing scenarios.
Use of Testing Frameworks: Employ tools like Jest, Mocha, or Selenium to structure and execute tests efficiently.




Watch video 5 , 6 , 7 and 8 from above link, code along with the udemy trainer and answer the following




Ques4 What does render function do?

Ans:
In the context of React Testing Library:

Purpose: The render function renders a React component into a testing environment, allowing you to interact with and test its output.
Usage: It sets up the component for testing by mounting it to a virtual DOM provided by the testing library .




Ques5. What does screen.getText exactly do.

Ans:
Functionality: screen.getByText searches the rendered DOM for an element that matches the provided text.

Use Case: It's used to assert that certain text content is present in the component's output, ensuring that the UI displays expected information .




Ques6. What does test suites exactly mean. How do we write them?

Ans:
Definition: A test suite is a collection of test cases that are intended to test a behavior or set of behaviors of a software application or system.

Purpose: Organizing tests into suites helps manage, execute, and report test results efficiently.

Writing Test Suites:

Structure: Use testing frameworks like Jest or Mocha to group related tests using describe blocks.

Example:
describe('Authentication Module', () => {
  test('should log in a user with correct credentials', () => {
    // test implementation
  });

  test('should not log in a user with incorrect credentials', () => {
    // test implementation
  });
});

Benefit: Enhances readability and maintainability of tests by logically grouping them .




Deliverable


Install the testing library node modules into your expense tracker app which you previously created

Write a total of 10 test cases in it.

Push the code and upload the commit ID.




Solution:
GitHub Repo: https://github.com/MdAbdullahAnwar/Expense-Tracker-Site
commit ID: e91a90df5f80ca0009b539ef70e1616f95f9b33f