Watch the videos on package.json, npm, and dependencies.

-Package.json,nodemon

-Dependencies and DevDependencies



After watching the videos complete the following tasks:


Deliverables:

Take notes on key concepts, then answer the questions about their roles, installation commands, and dependency types.

Summarize your learning and answer the following mcq questions.

Push your code to Github and submit your commit id for review.



Ques1. What is the purpose of nodemon in a Node.js application?

Ans: To automatically restart the server when file changes are detected.

Answer Explanation

Nodemon is a tool that monitors file changes and automatically restarts the server, making development smoother by eliminating the need to manually restart the server after changes.



Ques2. Which command is used to install nodemon globally?

Ans: npm install -g nodemon

Answer Explanation

The -g flag installs nodemon globally, allowing it to be used from any project or directory on your machine.



Ques3. What is the role of the package.json file in a Node.js project?

Ans: It defines project metadata, dependencies, and scripts.

Answer Explanation

package.json is the core configuration file in a Node.js project, containing metadata, dependencies, scripts, and other project details.



Ques4. Which section of package.json is used to specify the scripts to run commands?

Ans: 'scripts'

Answer Explanation

The "scripts" section in package.json allows defining commands for tasks like running the server, testing, and building the project.



Ques5. How do you install a package as a regular dependency (normal dependency)?

Ans: npm install <package>

Answer Explanation

Using npm install <package> without flags installs the package as a regular dependency required for the application to run.



Ques6. What is the difference between "dependencies" and "devDependencies" in package.json?

Ans: "dependencies" are needed for both development and production, while "devDependencies" are needed only in development.

Answer Explanation

"dependencies" are packages needed at runtime, while "devDependencies" are only required during development (e.g., testing tools).



Ques7. Which of the following is true when you run npm install --production?

Ans: Only packages listed in "dependencies" will be installed.

Answer Explanation

The --production flag installs only the packages under "dependencies" for use in production environments, skipping "devDependencies".



Ques8. Which command is used to install a package as a dev dependency?

Ans: npm install <package> --save-dev

Answer Explanation

The --save-dev flag adds a package under "devDependencies", which are only required during development.



Ques9. What command would you use to uninstall a package using npm?

Ans: npm uninstall <package>

Answer Explanation

The npm uninstall command is used to remove a package from the project and package.json.



Ques10. Which of the following is NOT a default field created in package.json when running npm init?

Ans: 'repository'

Answer Explanation

"repository" is not a default field when running npm init; it must be manually added to indicate the version control repository location.